# PTR
Parallel Test Runner (PTR)

Overview
Automation testing (unit test cases, integrated test cases and UI automated test cases) is becoming more and more prevalent day by day. It’s not unusual anymore for a project to have thousands of automated test cases. However, if the time the automated test cases of a project take to execute, exceeds say 30 minutes, it can wreak havoc with team’s productivity. So to execute automated test cases quickly, they must execute in parallel and that is what PTR can help you in.
Parallel test case execution is just one thing; many times apart from running test cases in parallel, developers need special features that can minimise the manual intervention in running test cases with different configurations. Keeping this in mind, PTR has been developed to revolutionise the execution of your test cases. Here are the features it offers:
1 PTR can be used to run your test cases in parallel. Depending on the resources of your system like RAM and the number of cores it has, PTR can reduce the execution time by up to 95%. Isn’t it revolutionary fast!
2 PTR can be used to run test cases written with most popular .net testing frameworks viz. NUnit, MSTest, CodedUI and SpecFlow. Soon it will also give support to run test cases written with testing frameworks like XUnit, JUnit, Cucumber, TestNG, etc. and with almost all popular languages like Python, Perl, Ruby, JavaScript etc. So far PTR is a Windows product but in next few releases, it will have support to run test cases on Mac, Linux, Ubuntu etc.
3 PTR automatically merges test result files and so you don’t need any special handling of intermediate result files.
4 PTR can dynamically change the configurations of your testing project and that too at different phases of your test-run. It reduces the manual intervention required to run same test cases but with different configurations.
5 PTR can automatically rerun the failed test cases. While running failed test cases, it can also change the configuration of your testing project. Just imagine, you want to run your test cases on an iPhone but if some of them fail, you want to rerun the failed ones on an Android device without manual intervention. PTR can easily handle such situations.
6 A single instance of PTR can be used to run test cases of many different testing projects by having separate test-configuration of each project. Also, it can be used to run test cases of the same testing project with different configurations in parallel.
7 PTR allows you to not only configure the number of parallel threads but also to configure the maximum number of total threads. For example, you want to run test cases of two different test-configurations each with the thread count of 5 (so total number of threads will be 10). But your system’s resources will perform best with only 7 as the maximum number of threads running at the same time. You can set the max thread size as 7 and PTR will not let the thread count to exceed 7 anytime. As soon as a thread completes its job and terminate, PTR will create another one and assign it the next job in the queue. So doesn’t it offer the best utilisation of your resources!
8 PTR can be used to run test cases in parallel at both the level viz. class level and test case level. Class level means test cases of the same class will run sequentially but test cases of different classes will run in parallel. Test case level means, all the test cases can run in parallel irrespective of whichever class they belong to. PTR allows you to choose the concurrent unit (Test class or test case) as per your requirements.
9 PTR allows you to run your test cases with shared resources. Imagine you need to run your test cases on android devices. To run your test cases in parallel you buy 10 android devices (could be at your own premises or on the cloud). Now, these 10 devices are the shared resources that will be shared by your test cases during their execution. Once a device is allotted to a test case for its execution, that device could not be allotted to any other test case till current one finishes its execution. PTR can easily handle a situation like this by allocating and deallocating shared resources (android devices in this case) to the test cases at run-time only.
10 PTR can be used to run UI automated test cases on multiple machines via Selenium Grid.
11 PTR allows you to override existing test configurations by passing command line parameters to it. This feature could be of immense help while integrating PTR with CI tools like Jenkins, TFS, and TeamCity etc.
